<!--
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->

<chapter id="getting-tde">
<title>Getting &tde;</title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question id="where-to-get-tde">
<para>Where do I get &tde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<!-- This needs a rewrite including informations about the latest version (link to the info page?)-->
<para>The easiest way to get &tde; is to install a &Linux; based distribution or another &UNIX; operating system
that includes &tde;.
You can find an up-to-date list of distributions that ship
with &tde; <ulink url="http://www.trinitydesktop.org/">here</ulink>.</para>

<para>The main distribution site for &tde; is
<ulink url="http://www.trinitydesktop.org/">http://www.trinitydesktop.org/</ulink>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What is the current version?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>TDE is developed continually. Find the latest stable version number <ulink url="http://www.trinitydesktop.org/releases.php">here</ulink>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Binary packages are not available for my distro. What do I do?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>That is always a challenging situation. Are there skilled packagers who
might help? If you are skilled in compiling software from sources, source
tarballs are available for each TDE release (http://www.trinitydesktop.org/releases.php).
The development version can also be built from our GIT source tree. Use the forums
or mailing lists to contact packagers to obtain copies of their build scripts
that can be massaged to fit your distro.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Where do I find &tde; snapshots?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Learn more about the latest development snapshots at <ulink
url="http://www.trinitydesktop.org/development.php">http://www.trinitydesktop.org/development.php</ulink>.
You might want to consider setting up your own <acronym>GIT</acronym> account to
maintain the latest snapshot at all times. Please refer to <ulink
url="http://www.trinitydesktop.org/development.php">http://www.trinitydesktop.org/development.php</ulink> for further
information.
</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question id="where-to-get-qt">
<para>Where do I get &Qt;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&Qt; is a product of the Norwegian company Trolltech. The version
upon which TDE is based no longer is actively maintained by Trolltech.
Maintenance is handled by the TDE developers. Get the latest &Qt; version
from the TDE GIT repository at
<ulink url="http://git.trinitydesktop.org/">http://git.trinitydesktop.org/</ulink>.</para>
<para>
With most &Linux; distributions, this version of &Qt; no longer is
included or maintained and must be obtained from the TDE repositories. Because
this version of &Qt; is now maintained exclusively to support TDE, the version supported
by TDE developers is not backwards compatible with the original version from Trolltech.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>


</qandaset>
</chapter>
