<!--
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->

<chapter id="misc">
<title>Miscellaneous questions</title>

<qandaset>


<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Does &tde; support transparency and other visual effects provided by the new composite extension to X.org?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes. &tde; supports for the X composite extension and provides its own compositor. This allows for effects such as translucency and drop shadows for all windows, easily configurable through &twin;'s configuration dialog. For those using an xorg.conf file, be sure the following is included:

<screen>
Section "Extensions"
Option  "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
</screen>

<!-- This option is enabled by default -->
<!--Those users with an Nvidia graphics card and driver can improve the performance of these effects by adding the RenderAccel option to the Device section for the graphics card:

<screen>
Section "Device"
    Identifier  "nvidia-fx5200"
    Driver      "nvidia"
    Option      "RenderAccel" "true"
</screen>-->
After correctly configuring xorg.conf, transparency and other effects can be enabled through the <menuchoice><guimenu>Desktop</guimenu><guimenuitem>Window Behavior</guimenuitem></menuchoice> &kcontrolcenter; module, under the <guilabel>Translucency</guilabel> tab.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What about &tde; programs that do not have icons? How do I get
them into the menu?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Use &kmenuedit;. To access it use the &RMB; on the
<guibutton>T</guibutton> button and select <guimenu>Menu Editor</guimenu>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Does &tde; have a graphical &FTP; client?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes, and it is none other than your favorite file
manager, &konqueror;. You can drag and drop remote files into local
folders.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I exit &tde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>On the panel (kicker) use the &LMB; to select the <guibutton>T</guibutton>
button and select <guimenu>Log Out...</guimenu>. Another method is to use the &RMB;
to select an empty area of the desktop, which opens a popup menu,
containing <guimenu>Log Out...</guimenu> as one of the options.
Another option is to use a keyboard shortcut, which on many systems is
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Alt;<keycap>Delete</keycap></keycombo>.
A fourth option is to add the <application>Lock/Logout</application> button applet.
<note><para>Depending on your configuration of the &X-Window;, <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Alt;&Backspace;</keycombo>
might also exit &tde; by killing the X server, but using that shortcut prevents
session management and is recommended only for emergencies.</para></note></para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Is there a program that checks for new mails at my
<acronym>ISP</acronym> if and only if I am online?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&korn; will do the job. If you are not
connected, it will just sit there (idling).</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Is it really necessary to update to the latest version?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>We recommend updating to the latest stable release, or at least to stay within
a release version. Otherwise, getting answers to questions might be challenging.
Each release always contains bug fixes and enhancements. Often a problem with an old version
has been fixed in a more recent release. Newer versions also fix security problems. Only seldom are bug and security fixes backported to older releases.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I copy and paste in &tde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>The simplest method is to use your mouse:</para>
<procedure>
<step performance="required"><para>Highlight the text you want to copy by holding down the
&LMB; and dragging across the text. This adds the selected text to the clipboard.</para></step>
<step performance="required"><para>Go to the destination area; depending on your configuration,
you might need to click it using the &LMB; to give it
focus.</para></step>
<step performance="required"><para>Click the &MMB; to paste. If you have a two
button mouse and are emulating a three button mouse, push both buttons
simultaneously.</para></step>
</procedure>
<para>The standard keyboard shortcuts for copying is <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo>, to cut is <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>X</keycap></keycombo>, and to paste is <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo>.</para>
<para>&tde; provides a multiple layer clipboard called &klipper;. Refer to the <ulink
url="help:/klipper">&klipper; handbook</ulink> for further information.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I convert the default &RedHat; menus into a menu in the
<guimenu>TDE</guimenu> menu?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Click on the <guibutton>T</guibutton> button and select
<menuchoice><guimenu>System</guimenu><guimenuitem>Appfinder</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question id="GIT">
<para>What is <acronym>GIT</acronym>?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>GIT is a distributed version control and source code management system.
GIT is used to maintain source code under development. The &tde; developers use GIT.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Does &tde; support dual screen (Xinerama)?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes, you need to have a multi-headed X server.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<!--<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Why does Drag and Drop not work with Xinerama?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>You should update to XFree86 4.2.0 for this to work properly.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>-->

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I check which version of &tde; I am using?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Start any Trinity app. Each app has a Help menu providing
related information in the <guimenuitem>About</guimenuitem> dialog.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<!--<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I create themes and icons?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Go see <ulink
url="http://artist.kde.org">http://artist.kde.org</ulink>.
There is also a more informal community of &tde; related artists and
artwork at <ulink url="http://kde-look.org">http://kde-look.org</ulink>.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>-->

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I learn about development updates?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>You might want to subscribe to the
<ulink url="http://www.trinitydesktop.org/mailinglist.php">
&tde; developer's mail list</ulink>.
Refer to <ulink url="http://trinity-devel.pearsoncomputing.net/">http://trinity-devel.pearsoncomputing.net/</ulink>
if you want to read without subscribing.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Is there a release schedule?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>The Trinity developers strive for a six to nine month schedule but that is not rigid or set in stone.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Are there plans to support semantic desktops?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Not at this time.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Are there plans to support tablet-like or special netbook desktop modes?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>No. The TDE team suggests a tablet-centric interface such as Unity, KDE4, or GNOME 3 for those devices.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do the developers propose to transition away from HAL (hardware abstraction layer)?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>The Trinity team developed a new native hardware support layer that is under testing.
That new system will be enabled by default in a future release, but is available now
in the development sources.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset>
</chapter>
