<chapter id="licensing">
<title>&Qt; and Licensing questions</title>

<qandaset>

<qandaentry>
<question id="qt">
<para>What is &Qt;, by the way?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&Qt; is a C++-based class library to build user interfaces. It
also includes many utility classes like string classes and classes
to handle input and output. It
provides most of the widgets you will see in a &tde; application:
menus, buttons, sliders, &etc; &Qt; is a cross-platform library that
allows developers to write code that will compile on &UNIX; systems as well as
&Windows; and embedded devices. Learn more about &Qt; at <ulink
url="http://www.trolltech.com">http://www.trolltech.com</ulink>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Why does &tde; use &Qt;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&Qt; is a sophisticated toolkit that provides everything that
needed to build a modern user interface. &Qt; is written in C++, thus
allowing object-oriented development which ensures efficiency and
code reuse in a project the size and scope of &tde;. In our opinion
there is no better toolkit available for &UNIX; systems and that it
would have been a grave mistake to try to build &tde; on anything but
the best.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Why does &tde; not use gtk, xforms, xlib, whatever?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>There are a number of toolkits available. To provide a
consistent user interface and to keep used resources such as memory to
a minimum, &tde; can use only one of them. &Qt; was selected for the
reasons mentioned above.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>But &Qt; isn't free, is it?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&Qt; is free/libre. Since September 4, 2000, version 2.2 of the &Qt;
libraries are licensed under the <acronym>GPL</acronym>, thereby
fulfiling all aspects of <quote>free/libre software</quote>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Can I write commercial software for &tde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>You can use the &tde; libraries to write <quote>commercial and
closed source</quote> as well as <quote>commercial and open
source</quote> software. If you write open source software you can
use the &Qt; free edition. If you write closed source software
you may not use the &Qt; free edition; you need to obtain the &Qt;
professional edition from Troll Tech. For more information, please
contact <ulink url="http://www.trolltech.com">Troll Tech</ulink> directly.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Isn't Qt3 obsolete and "dead" technology?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>The definition for "obsolete" varies based upon who applies the term.
Generally the term "obsolete" means something no longer is useful or no longer
needed. In software circles the term often means antiquated or no longer shiny.
Usefulness often is not part of the intended meaning of the word. The term is
used as an emotional wedge more than a factual observation.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Are there plans to migrate &tde; to Qt4 or Qt5?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>There are no such plans. Porting Trinity to Qt4 is 5 to 10 years of solid work with current project manpower. Indeed, the KDE4 team of developers needed several years to port KDE and they have many more developers.</para>

<para>A fundamental project goal for maintaining Trinity is to keep alive the spirit and functionality of the original KDE3 concepts. Porting to Qt4 does not support that goal. Qt4 functionality is different from Qt3 (now TQt). Those differences conflict with how users want Trinity to function. The Qt4 environment is too different in focus and functionality to be used as the base toolkit of Trinity.</para>

<para>The idea of integrating certain portions of the Qt4 code has not been abandoned. One of the original reasons for the TQt interface layer was to keep open the possibility of adapting portions of Trinity to Qt4. That has already been done. For example, with the qt4-tqt-theme-engine package for Trinity.</para>

<para>More information about the philosophical and design differences between Trinity and KDE4 are available in <xref linkend="trinity-vs-kde4"/> of the FAQ introduction.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>


</qandaset>
</chapter>