<!--
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->

<chapter id="windowmanager">
<title>The window manager</title>

<para>The default window manager provided by &tde; is the Trinity Window
Manager (&twin;). Please refer to <ulink url="help:/khelpcenter/userguide/windows-how-to-work.html">
Windows, How To Work Them</ulink> in the Trinity user guide for more information.</para>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Are there keyboard shortcuts for &twin; operations?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes. Please use to the Trinity Control Center (&kcontrol;),
<menuchoice><guimenu>Regional &amp; Accessibility</guimenu><guimenuitem>
Keyboard Shortcuts</guimenuitem></menuchoice>, for the
list of available shortcuts.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Can I define my own set of keyboard shortcuts?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes. Launch the
<application>&tde; Control Center</application> and select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Regional &amp; Accessibility</guimenu><guimenuitem>Keyboard Shortcuts</guimenuitem></menuchoice> to
configure window manager bindings like maximizing windows, &etc;.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>When I "iconify" a window, it disappears. Where does it
go?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>With many &X-Window; &GUI;s, the minimize button (a little dot) will
erase the window that the program is running in and create, instead,
an icon on the desktop. &tde; does not do this. Instead, when a
window is iconified it is simply hidden (but the program is still
running).</para>
<para>There are a few ways to access <quote>disappeared</quote> windows:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>If you are running the taskbar part of &kicker;,
you can choose to have a list of tasks displayed on your desktop.
Iconified tasks will have their names displayed in gray.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>If you click the &MMB; on the root window (&ie;,
the background of the desktop), &twin; will give you a list
of all available tasks.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I maximize windows only vertically or horizontally?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Provided your window is not already maximized, clicking on the
maximize button with the &LMB;/&MMB;/&RMB; will
maximize fully/vertically/horizontally respectively.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What is <quote>shading</quote> a window?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>By <quote>shading</quote> a window we mean <quote>rolling up</quote> the window leaving just
the title bar visible. You can do this by double clicking on the
window title bar.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<!-- This is kinda covered in desktop.docbook, but the question here -->
<!-- is different, even if the answer is nearly the same -->
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How can I start an application with special window options, like
maximized/minimized/to stay on top?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Use the <command>kstart</command> command. As an example, to
open &kcalc; with the <quote>Stay on Top</quote> option, use:
<screen><prompt>%</prompt> <userinput><command>kstart</command> <option>--ontop</option> <option>kcalc</option></userinput></screen>
</para>
<para>For maximized windows, use the <option>--maximize</option>
option, for minimized windows, use <option>--iconify</option>. You can
see a full list of <command>kstart</command> options with
<userinput><command>kstart</command>
<option>--help-all</option></userinput>.</para>

<warning><para>If you're using <command>kstart</command> to start
applications at &tde; startup, you should use the
<option>--window</option> option. See the &tde; User Guide, section
<quote>Advanced Window Management</quote> for more information about
this feature.</para>
</warning>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<!-- Not sure this is still applicable
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Is it possible to have FVWM2-like shadow frameworks for the
placement of windows?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes. Run <application>&tde; Control Center</application> and select <guimenu>Look and Feel</guimenu>
followed by <guisubmenu>Window Behavior</guisubmenu> and finally
<guimenuitem>Advanced</guimenuitem>. There is a dialog option that
allows you to set the placement policy you want.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
-->
</qandaset>
</chapter>

