<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;" id="webdav">
<title>webdav / webdavs</title>

<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Hamish.Rodda;</author>
<author>&tde-authors;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<releaseinfo>&tde-release-version;</releaseinfo>
<date>Reviewed: &tde-release-date;</date>

<copyright>
<year>2010</year>
<holder>&Hamish.Rodda;</holder>
</copyright>
<copyright>
<year>&tde-copyright-date;</year>
<holder>&tde-team;</holder>
</copyright>

<abstract>
<para>
This handbook describes the webdav protocol.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>TDE</keyword>
<keyword>webdav</keyword>
<keyword>protocol</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>

<para><acronym>WebDAV</acronym> is a <emphasis>D</emphasis>istributed
<emphasis>A</emphasis>uthoring and <emphasis>V</emphasis>ersioning
protocol for the World Wide Web. It allows for easy management of
documents and scripts on a <ulink
url="help:/tdeioslave/http">http</ulink> server, and has
additional features designed to simplify version management amongst
multiple authors.</para>

<para>Usage of this protocol is simple. Type the location you want to
view, similar to a <acronym>http</acronym> URL except for the
webdav:// protocol name at the start. An example is
<userinput>webdav://<replaceable>www.hostname.com/path/</replaceable></userinput>.
If you specify a folder name, a list of files and folders will be
displayed, and you can manipulate these folders and files just as you
would with any other filesystem.</para>

<variablelist>
<title>WebDAV Features</title>
<varlistentry>
<term>Locking</term>
<listitem>
<para>File locking allows users to lock a file, informing others that they
are currently working on this file. This way, editing can be done without fear
that the changes may be overwritten by another person who is also editing the
same document.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Source file access</term>
<listitem>
<para><acronym>WebDAV</acronym> allows access to the script which is called
to produce a specific page, so changes can be made to the script itself.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Per-document property support</term>
<listitem>
<para>Arbitrary properties may be set to assist identification of a 
document, such as the author.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>To take advantage of these additional capabilities, you will need an
application which supports them. No application currently supports them 
through this tdeioslave.</para>

<para>WebDAVS is the WebDAV protocol encrypted via SSL.</para>

</article>
