<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">

<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride;</author>
<author>&Jost.Schenck;</author>
<author>&tde-authors;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2010</year>
<holder>&Mike.McBride;</holder>
<holder>&Jost.Schenck;</holder>
</copyright>
<copyright>
<year>&tde-copyright-date;</year>
<holder>&tde-team;</holder>
</copyright>

<releaseinfo>&tde-release-version;</releaseinfo>
<date>Reviewed: &tde-release-date;</date>

<keywordset>
<keyword>TDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>System Settings</keyword>
<keyword>desktop</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="multiple-desktops">
<title>Multiple Desktops</title>

<sect2 id="multiple-desktops-introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&tde; supports multiple desktops, widely known as virtual desktops.</para>

<para>Virtual desktops are like having multiple computers. In older operating systems, users
had access only to one desktop. Virtual desktops work much the same way as having multiple
computers. Many users configure their virtual desktops by grouping similar tasks.</para>

<para>Virtual desktops apply only to each user's session. Other users logged in also can define
virtual desktops.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="multiple-desktops-number">
<title>Number of Desktops</title>

<para>&tde; offers the possibility to define up to 20 virtual
desktops. In this module you can configure the number of desktops as well
as names. Use the slider or spinner widgets to adjust the number of
desktops. Assign names to the desktops by entering text into the respective
text fields.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="multiple-desktops-switching">
<title>Desktop Switching</title>

<para>There are several ways to switch to the different desktops.</para>

<para>When you enable <guilabel>Mouse wheel over desktop switches
desktop</guilabel>, then scrolling the wheel over an empty space on the
desktop will change to the next virtual desktop numerically, in the
direction scrolled. Scrolling forward (up) will select the desktop in the
next numerical order. Scrolling backwards (down) will do the opposite.</para>

<para>Keyboard shortcuts provide a way to switch desktops. For virtual
desktops 1 through 12, use <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F1</keycap></keycombo>,
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo>,
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo>, etc. For virtual desktops
13 through 20, use <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>F1</keycap></keycombo>,
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo>,
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo>, etc.</para>

<para>Another keyboard shortcut includes <keycombo action="simul"> &Ctrl;&Tab;</keycombo>.</para>

<para>A feature called <guilabel>Active Desktop Borders</guilabel> can be used with the mouse pointer
to switch desktops. This feature is configured in the
<ulink url="help:/kcontrol/windowbehavior/index.html#advanced">Window Behavior Advanced</ulink>
module.</para>

<para>Another method is to install the Desktop Preview &amp; and Pager Menu panel applet. The
default &tde; desktop has this applet already installed with a default number of virtual desktops
set to four. When this applet is installed in the panel, miniature desktops can be viewed and
selected with the mouse pointer.</para>

<para>Like the desktop mouse wheel scrolling support, the scroll wheel can be used with the pager
applet too.</para>

<para>The Desktop Preview &amp; and Pager Menu panel applet has its own set of configuration
options. Like many panel applets, the Desktop Preview &amp; and Pager Menu panel applet has a handle,
from which a popup menu appears when using the &RMB;. When the popup menu appears, select the
<guimenuitem>Desktop Preview &amp; Pager Menu</guimenuitem> option, then
select the <guisubmenu>Pager Options</guisubmenu> submenu option.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
