<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<title>Service Manager</title>

<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Burkhard</firstname><surname>Lück</surname>
</author>
<author>&tde-authors;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2009</year>
<holder>Burkhard Lück</holder>
</copyright>
<copyright>
<year>&tde-copyright-date;</year>
<holder>&tde-team;</holder>
</copyright>

<releaseinfo>&tde-release-version;</releaseinfo>
<date>Reviewed: &tde-release-date;</date>

<keywordset>
<keyword>TDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>System Settings</keyword>
<keyword>services</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="service-manager">
<title>Service Manager</title>

<para>
The <guilabel>Service Manager</guilabel> module allows you view all
plugins of the &tde; Daemon, also referred to as &tde; Services. Generally,
there are two types of services:</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Load-on-Demand Services</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>
This is a list of available &tde; services that will be started on demand.
They are only listed for convenience, as you cannot manipulate these
services.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Startup Services</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>
This shows all &tde; services that can be loaded on &tde; startup.
Services checked in the <guilabel>Use</guilabel> column will be launched the next &tde; startup.</para>
<para>Be careful with deactivating unknown services as some services are vital for &tde;. Basically,
do not deactivate services when you do not know what you are doing.
</para>
<para>Change the <guilabel>Status</guilabel> of a service by selecting the service in the list.
Use the <guibutton>Start</guibutton> and <guibutton>Stop</guibutton>
to change the status of a service from <guilabel>Not running</guilabel> to <guilabel>Running</guilabel>
and vice versa.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

</article>
