<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>


<authorgroup>
<author>&Jonathan.Singer; &Jonathan.Singer.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2002-02-12</date>
<releaseinfo>3.00.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>konsole</keyword>
<keyword>terminal</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="konsole">
<title>&konsole;</title>

<para>In this module, you can configure basic settings for &konsole;,
the &tde; terminal.  You can also easily create new schemata (appearance
files) for &konsole;.</para>

<para>This module contains several tab pages:
<guilabel>General</guilabel>, <guilabel>Schema</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Session</guilabel> and <guilabel>Write
Daemon</guilabel>.</para>

<sect2>
<title><guilabel>General</guilabel></title>

<para>This tab page allows you to configure aspects of &konsole;'s
functions.  It contains the following options:</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show Terminal Size when Resizing</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>By default, &konsole; will show the size (in characters) of the
window when you are resizing, allowing you to make the window a
specific size.  Uncheck this box to turn off this
behavior.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show Frame</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Draw an inner frame around the inside of the &konsole; window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Confirm quit when closing more than one session</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>When set, a warning appears when you try to close a &konsole;
window with multiple sessions.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Blinking Cursor</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If you have trouble spotting the cursor in the
&konsole; window, you can have it blink to draw your
attention.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Require Ctrl key for drag and drop</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If unchecked, you can drag and drop selected text by using the mouse.
If checked, the Ctrl key needs to be held down to allow drag and drop (this is
a good way to avoid erroneous drag and drop operations).
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Triple click selects only from the current word forward</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If checked, a mouse triple click will select everything from the 
current cursor position to the end of the lime. If unchecked, a mouse triple click will select
the entire current row.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Allow programs to resize terminal window</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If checked, programs can resize the terminal window.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use Ctrl+S/Ctrl+Q flow control</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If checked, Ctrl+S/Ctrl+Q can be used to control the flow of output
characters sent to the terminal. After pressing CTRL-S, the system will not send any
more data to the screen until a CTRL-Q is pressed.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enable bidirectional text rendering</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If checked, text can be rendered from left to right or from right to left.
This is useful to support languages which are written in the second way.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Set tab title to match window title</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If checked, the title of the tab representing the current session will match
the text displayed on the window title bar. Whenever the window title changes, the tab 
tile changes as well.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Cycle tabs with mouse wheel</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If checked, you can move through the different session tabs 
using the mouse wheel over the tabbar control. If unchecked, the action is disabled.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enable main menu accelerator keys</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If checked, the main menu shortcut keys are enabled, otherwise
they are disabled.
</para>
<note><para>If menu accelerators are enabled, some Alt-key combinations may not
be handled correctly any longer in Konsole applications.</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Handle Meta key as Alt Key</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If checked, the Meta key will be handled as if it was an Alt key.
</para>
<note><para>This is a useful option if you have enabled the main menu shortcut keys.
You can use the Meta key to activate those Alt-key combinations that otherwise
would not work any longer in Konsole.</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Line Spacing</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Change the space between lines of text.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Seconds to detect silence</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Allows to specify the time interval used for monitoring the
Konsole for silence,
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Consider the following characters part of a word when
double clicking</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>It is a common &UNIX; behavior to select a whole word
when you double click on it, however, the computer's idea of a word may
differ from yours.  Add characters here that you would like to be
considered always to be <quote>part of a word</quote>.  For example,
adding the <literal>@</literal> character will allow you to double
click to select an entire email address.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Schema</title>

<para>The <guilabel>Schema</guilabel> page will allow you to easily
create, edit and save schemata, with text and background coloring,
transparency and background images.</para>


<!-- 
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Font</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Use the drop-down box to select the default font size.  Use the
<guibutton>Custom...</guibutton> button to select your own combination
of font, size, and style.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
 
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Full Screen</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Check the box to make &konsole; windows full-screen by
default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Bars</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show menubar</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Check to show the menubar by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show toolbar</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Check to show the toolbar by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show frame</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Check to show the frame by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Scrollbar position</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Select the default position of the scrollbar:
<guilabel>Hide</guilabel> (no scrollbar), <guilabel>Left</guilabel>, or
<guilabel>Right</guilabel>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
-->
</sect2>

</sect1>
</article>