<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;" id="nntp">
<title>nntp / nntps</title>

<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Lauri.Watts;</author>
<author>&tde-authors;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<releaseinfo>&tde-release-version;</releaseinfo>
<date>Reviewed: &tde-release-date;</date>

<copyright>
<year>2010</year>
<holder>&Lauri.Watts;</holder>
</copyright>
<copyright>
<year>&tde-copyright-date;</year>
<holder>&tde-team;</holder>
</copyright>

<abstract>
<para>
This handbook describes the nntp protocol.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>TDE</keyword>
<keyword>nntp</keyword>
<keyword>protocol</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>

<para>The nntp tdeioslave accesses <acronym>NNTP</acronym> servers
directly.</para>

<para>This tdeioslave can not be used with servers that do not implement
the <command>GROUP</command> command, including some versions of the
popular <application>INN</application> news server which is often used
by <acronym>ISP</acronym>s.  It does work with
<application>leafnode</application>, which many people use to keep an
offline cache of news articles on their own hard drive or within their
<acronym>LAN</acronym>.</para>

<para>You can use the nntp tdeioslave by typing
<userinput>nntp://yourserver/groupname</userinput> into the &konqueror;
<acronym>URL</acronym> bar.</para>

<para>If you enter a group name, as above, and the group is available,
you will see the messages stored for that group as icons in
&konqueror;.</para>

<para>Clicking on a message will display it as plain text, including all
headers.  This could be useful for debugging a news client to news
server connection, for example, to ensure that your new
<application>leafnode</application> server is working correctly.</para>

<para>If you don't enter a group name, and only the server name, you
will see a list of available groups.</para>

<para>Please be aware that this could take an enormous amount of time, and
will cause a lot of network traffic.  Some commercial usenet servers
have 60,000 or more groups available, and doing such a thing may
cause your desktop to freeze.</para>  

<para>NNTPS is the NNTP protocol encrypted via SSL.</para>

</article>
