<chapter id="bookmarks">
<chapterinfo>
<authorgroup><author>&tde-authors;</author></authorgroup>
</chapterinfo>

<title>Editing bookmarks</title>

<para>The <guilabel>Bookmark Editor</guilabel> shows a tree view of your bookmarks
and bookmark subfolders. As is usual for tree views in &tde;, subfolders are shown
with a small square at the left of the folder name; if the square contains a 
<keycap>+</keycap> sign <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> clicking on it will expand
the view to show the contents of that subfolder and the <keycap>+</keycap> sign will 
change to <keycap>-</keycap>, <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> clicking on the 
<keycap>-</keycap> sign will collapse the subfolder view.</para>

<para>To select an item in the list you can <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> 
click on it, or you can navigate through the list by using the <keysym>
Up arrow</keysym> and <keysym>Down arrow</keysym> keys to move around, 
<keysym>Right arrow</keysym> to expand a subfolder and <keysym>
Left arrow</keysym> to collapse it.</para>

<para>You can move an item to a different place in the list by using the 
normal Drag and Drop or <guimenuitem>Cut</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>
Paste</guimenuitem> methods. The order in which the items appear in 
the <guilabel>Bookmark Editor</guilabel> is the order they will appear in the 
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> drop down list. The <menuchoice><guimenu>Insert
</guimenu><guimenuitem>Insert Separator</guimenuitem></menuchoice> option can 
be used to insert separating lines into the list wherever you wish.</para>

<para>A new subfolder can be created at the selected point in the list by 
using the <guimenuitem>Create New Folder...</guimenuitem> option in the 
<guimenu>Insert</guimenu> menu or from the drop down menu you get when you 
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click on an item in the main part of the 
window, or with <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</para>

<para>To change the name of a bookmark or folder select it then press 
<keycap>F2</keycap> or choose the <guimenuitem>Rename</guimenuitem> item from 
the <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> menu or the pop up menu that appears when you 
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click on the item. Similarly, you can edit 
the &URL; by pressing <keycap>F3</keycap> or choosing the <guimenuitem>
Change URL</guimenuitem> menu item.</para>

<para>The <guilabel>Bookmark Editor</guilabel> lets you import bookmarks from 
a range of other browsers into &konqueror;'s bookmark list, putting them into 
 a new folder or replacing all current bookmarks. To do this select 
<guisubmenu>Import</guisubmenu> from the <guimenu>File</guimenu> menu. The 
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guisubmenu>Export</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice> option can be used to export &konqueror;'s bookmarks to a 
&Netscape; or Mozilla browser.</para>

<para>If you often use the &Netscape; browser as well as &konqueror;, then 
rather than importing your &Netscape; bookmarks into &konqueror; it is 
better to select the <guimenuitem>Show Netscape Bookmarks in Konqueror 
Windows</guimenuitem> item in the <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu. If you 
do this any updates to &Netscape;'s bookmarks are automatically seen by 
&konqueror;.</para>

<para>To select which bookmark subfolder is used to hold the Bookmark 
Toolbar items select the subfolder then choose <guimenuitem>Set as Toolbar 
Folder</guimenuitem> from the <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> menu.</para>

<para>If you are tiding up your bookmarks and have forgotten what a 
particular web page is, you can easily open it from within the <guilabel>
Bookmark Editor</guilabel> by <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> clicking 
on the item and selecting <guimenuitem>Open in Konqueror</guimenuitem> from 
the pop up menu. If you just want to check that the &URL; is still valid 
select <guimenuitem>Check Status</guimenuitem> instead.</para>

<important><para>Don't forget to save your changes with <menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem></menuchoice> or 
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo> before you leave 
the <guilabel>Bookmark Editor</guilabel>.
</para></important>


</chapter>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "chapter")
End:
-->
