<chapter id="supporting-tde">
<chapterinfo>
<date>&tde-release-date;</date>
<releaseinfo>&tde-release-version;</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>
<title>Supporting the &tde; Project</title>
<anchor id="support"/>

<sect1 id="supporting-tde-introduction">
<title>Supporting the &tde; Project</title>

<para> If you are new to &tde;, the &tde; project might look like big
machinery to you. Undoubtedly, &tde; is no longer a small project,
nevertheless it is very important to realize that it is easy to
<quote>make a difference</quote> in the &tde; world.  </para>

<para> There is always a need for dedicated developers, graphic
artists, sound engineers, translators and documentation
writers. Consider jumping aboard this exciting international project
and make yourself a name in the software world.</para>

<para> Along the way you will make countless friends and acquaintances
all over the world. Also, the satisfaction that stems from doing
actual hands-on work, that will benefit an uncountable number of users
world-wide, and from seeing an unparalleled project grow, is hard to
beat. Please consider joining and supporting &tde; and hop aboard this
exciting journey towards a free and open alternative computing
platform.  </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="supporting-tde-get-started">
<title>How to get started</title>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>
Subscribe to the <link linkend="contact">&tde; mailing lists</link>
that interest you.
</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>
Read the <ulink url="http://trinity-devel.pearsoncomputing.net/">&tde;
developer mailing list</ulink> archives to get a feel for &tde; development.
</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>
Learn to program using the &tde; application framework and join the
&tde; developers' community.
</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="supporting-tde-financial-support">
<title>Supporting financially</title>

<para> The &tde; team is working very hard on providing you with the
best desktop available for the &UNIX; operating system. &tde; is
available for free and will always be available for free, including
each and every line of its source code, for everyone to modify and
distribute. If you enjoy and use &tde; please consider supporting the
&tde; Project financially.  &tde; is in constant need of funds in
order to finance its operations.</para>

<para> If your busy schedule or skills do not permit you to be
actively involved in &tde; development, please consider supporting
&tde; financially by sending a donation to:</para>

<para><ulink url="http://www.trinitydesktop.org/donate.php">Support</ulink>
</para>

<para>Please contact the Trinity team if you have questions.</para>

<para>Your contribution is appreciated. Thank you!</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>
