<sect1 id="getting-help">

<title>Getting Help</title>

<sect2 id="user-manuals">
<title>User Manuals</title>

<indexterm><primary>User Manual</primary></indexterm>
<para>Most applications come with a user manual<indexterm><primary>User Manual</primary><secondary>Handbook
</secondary></indexterm>, which can be reached in various ways:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>By pressing <keycap>F1</keycap> while inside the application.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>From the menu bar:
<menuchoice><guimenu>Help</guimenu><guimenuitem><replaceable>Application name
</replaceable></guimenuitem></menuchoice></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>By browsing in &khelpcenter;<indexterm><primary>&khelpcenter;</primary></indexterm></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>By using the help KIOslave in &konqueror;. For example, in the Location bar, type <userinput>help:/<replaceable>Application name</replaceable></userinput>, where <replaceable>Application name</replaceable> is the name of the application.
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="context-help">
<title>Context and <quote>What's This</quote> Help</title>

<para>Many applications also provide context help in two forms:
Tooltips and <quote>What's This</quote> help.</para>

<sect3 id="tooltips">
<title>Tooltips</title>

<indexterm><primary>Tooltips</primary></indexterm>
<para>Tooltips are small informational windows or balloons that appear when
hovering the mouse over an item.</para>

<para>&tde; uses tooltips in many places to provide brief help or
information about an item on the screen. For instance, most toolbar buttons
inside applications will display their name in a tooltip when resting or hovering
the mouse pointer over them.</para>

<para>Tooltips have another function, which is not specifically tied to
help. In the &konqueror; file manager and on the Desktop, tooltips can
provide information about files. This information is commonly referred to as
<quote>meta information</quote>.</para>

<para>Learn more about meta-information tooltips in the section
about <link linkend="file-manager">the &konqueror; file manager</link>.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="whats-this-help">
<title><quote>What's This?</quote></title>

<indexterm><primary>What's This?</primary></indexterm>

<para><quote>What's This?</quote> help usually is more detailed than tooltips.
Access <quote>What's This?</quote> help in two ways:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>By selecting the <guibutton>?</guibutton> button in the titlebar of the
window.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>By pressing the key combination
<keycombo>&Shift;<keycap>F1</keycap></keycombo></para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>The mouse pointer will change to a pointer with a question mark.
Select an item to learn more, and a small window will
pop up displaying information.</para>

</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="mailing-lists-newsgroups-and-irc">
<title>Mailing Lists, Newsgroups, and <acronym>IRC</acronym></title>

<sect3 id="mailing-lists">
<title>Mailing Lists</title>

<indexterm><primary>Mailing Lists</primary></indexterm>
<para>The &tde; Team provides some mailing lists to provide help
and guidance with using and configuring &tde;:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>The &tde; User List
<indexterm><primary>&tde; User Mailing List</primary></indexterm></term>
<listitem>
<para>This mailing list focuses specifically on questions
and discussions about using &tde;. For example,
the question <quote>How do I change the margin size for KWord
documents</quote> is appropriate for this list.</para>
<para>Subscribe to this list at <ulink
url="http://www.trinitydesktop.org/mailinglist.php">http://www.trinitydesktop.org/mailinglist.php</ulink>.</para>
<para>Find archives at <ulink
url="http://trinity-users.pearsoncomputing.net/">http://trinity-users.pearsoncomputing.net/</ulink>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect3>

<sect3>
<title>IRC</title>

<para>There is a #trinity channel on Freenode (irc.freenode.net) for support and other general talk about &tde;.
Access this channel by using any of &tde;'s popular IRC clients, which include <application>Konversation</application>,
&ksirc; and &kopete;. For more information, check the <xref linkend="irc"/> section.</para>

</sect3>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="more-resources">
<title>More Resources</title>

<para>Other resources that might prove useful:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>trinitydesktop.org/rss.php (RSS Feed)
<indexterm><primary>&tde; News Resource</primary></indexterm></term>
<listitem>
<para>The RSS feed news resource to stay informed about &tde;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><ulink
url="http://www.trinitydesktop.org/wiki">http://www.trinitydesktop.org/wiki</ulink>
<indexterm><primary>The &tde; Wiki</primary></indexterm></term>
<listitem>
<para>The &tde; Wiki. The wiki should not be used as a substitute for the
respective application's handbook or official &tde; documentation.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: xml
sgml-omittag:nil
sgml-shorttag:nil
sgml-namecase-general:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:true
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "sect1")
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->
