<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;" id="mac">
<title>mac</title>

<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author><personname><firstname>Johnathan</firstname>
<surname>Riddell</surname></personname>
</author>
<author>&tde-authors;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<releaseinfo>&tde-release-version;</releaseinfo>
<date>Reviewed: &tde-release-date;</date>

<copyright>
<year>2010</year>
<holder>&Lauri.Watts;</holder>
<holder>Johnathan Riddell</holder>
</copyright>
<copyright>
<year>&tde-copyright-date;</year>
<holder>&tde-team;</holder>
</copyright>

<abstract>
<para>
This handbook describes the mac protocol.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>TDE</keyword>
<keyword>mac</keyword>
<keyword>protocol</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>

<para>The mac ioslave lets you read an HFS+ partition from &konqueror;
or any other &tde; file dialog. It uses hfsutils and you will need those
files installed for it to work.</para>

<para>Enter <userinput>mac:/</userinput> into &konqueror; and you
should see the contents of your &MacOS; partition. If you have not
used tdeio-mac before, you will probably get an error message saying you
have not specified the right partition. Enter something like
<userinput>mac:/<option>?dev=/dev/hda2</option></userinput> to specify
the partition (if you don't know which partition &MacOS; is on, you
can probably guess by changing hda2 to hda3 and so on or use the print
command from <command>mac-fdisk</command>). This partition will be
used the next time, so you do not have to specify it each time.</para>

<para><application>Hfsutils tools</application> let you see the file and copy
data from the HFS+ partition, but not to copy data to it or change the
filenames.</para>

<para>HFS+ actually keeps two files for every one you see (called
forks), a resource fork and a data fork. The default copy mode when
you are copying files across to your native drive is raw data, which
means it only copies the data fork. Text files are copied in text mode
(same as raw format but changes the line endings to be &UNIX; friendly
and gets rid of some extra characters - strongly advised for text
files), unless you specify otherwise. You can also copy the files
across in Mac Binary II format or specify text or raw format with
another query:
<userinput>mac:/<option>myfile?mode=b</option></userinput> or
<userinput>mac:/<option>myfile?mode=t</option></userinput>. See the
<command>hpcopy</command> man page for more.</para>

<para>Note that you need permissions to read your HFS+ partition. How
you get this depends on your distribution. <!-- , do a <command>ls -l
/dev/hdaX</command> on it to see. Under Debian you have to be in the
'disk' group (just add your username to the end of the entry in
/etc/group).--></para>

<para>For some reason some folders in &MacOS; end in a funny tall
<quote>f</quote> character. This seems to confuse hfstools.</para>

</article>

