<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;" id="gopher">
<title>gopher</title>

<articleinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Lauri.Watts;</author>
<author>&tde-authors;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<releaseinfo>&tde-release-version;</releaseinfo>
<date>Reviewed: &tde-release-date;</date>

<copyright>
<year>2010</year>
<holder>&Lauri.Watts;</holder>
</copyright>
<copyright>
<year>&tde-copyright-date;</year>
<holder>&tde-team;</holder>
</copyright>

<abstract>
<para>
This handbook describes the gopher protocol.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>TDE</keyword>
<keyword>gopher</keyword>
<keyword>protocol</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>

<para>
<command>gopher</command> began as a distributed campus information service 
at the University of Minnesota. Gopher allows the user to access information 
on Gopher servers running on Internet hosts.</para>

<para>
Gopher is an Internet information browsing service that uses a menu-driven 
interface. Users select information from menus, which may return another 
menu or display a text file. An item may reside on a Gopher server you 
originally queried, or it may be on another Gopher server (or another host). 
Gopher can <quote>tunnel</quote> from one Gopher to another without the 
user knowing that the server and/or host machine have changed. Gopher keeps 
the exact location of computers hidden from the user, providing the 
<quote>illusion</quote> of a single, large set of interconnected menus. 
</para>

<para>
Gopher permits the user to record an item's location in a 
<quote>bookmark</quote> thereby allowing users to follow a 
<quote>bookmark</quote> directly to a particular item without 
searching the menu system. Gopher menus are not standardized, inasmuch as 
each Gopher server is individually determined.
</para>

<para>
Original source:
<ulink 
url="http://tlc.nlm.nih.gov/resources/tutorials/internetdistlrn/gophrdef.htm"> http://tlc.nlm.nih.gov/resources/tutorials/internetdistlrn/gophrdef.htm</ulink>
</para>
</article>
