<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<title>&tde; Resources</title>

<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Burkhard</firstname><surname>Lück</surname>
</author>
<author>&tde-authors;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2010</year>
<holder>Burkhard Lück</holder>
</copyright>
<copyright>
<year>&tde-copyright-date;</year>
<holder>&tde-team;</holder>
</copyright>

<releaseinfo>&tde-release-version;</releaseinfo>
<date>Reviewed: &tde-release-date;</date>

<keywordset>
<keyword>TDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>System Settings</keyword>
<keyword>resources</keyword>
<keyword>address</keyword>
<keyword>alarm</keyword>
<keyword>calendar</keyword>
<keyword>notes</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="paths">
<title>&tde; Resources</title>

<para>This module is a configuration tool for managing the resources used by different &tde; applications.
The module allows adding, deleting or modifying the resources for <guilabel>Calendar</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Notes</guilabel> and <guilabel>Contacts</guilabel>.</para>

<para>Select a resource type from the drop down box at the top of the <guilabel>Resources</guilabel> section.
The list box now displays names and types of available resources of this type. 
One of these resources is marked as the standard resource.</para>

<para>Use the buttons on the right side of the list box to add, remove, or edit resources.</para>

<para>Detailed information about resource types and options you find in the links provided in the following
table:</para>

<para>
<table>
<title>Available Resources</title>
<tgroup cols="3">
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Resource Type</entry>
<entry>Used by</entry>
<entry>Additional information</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Calendar</entry>
<entry><simplelist type="inline"><member>&korganizer;</member> 
<member>iCal invitation plugin in &kmail;</member></simplelist></entry>
<entry><ulink url="help:/korganizer/managing-data.html#managing-resources">&korganizer; resources</ulink></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Notes</entry>
<entry><simplelist type="inline"><member>&knotes;</member></simplelist></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Contacts</entry>
<entry><simplelist type="inline">
<member>&kaddressbook;</member> 
<member>address completion in &kmail;, &knode; and &korganizer;</member>
<member>address book integration in &kopete;</member>
<member>&konversation;</member>
<member>KonsoleKalendar</member></simplelist> </entry>
<entry></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</para>

<para>Every resource type needs a standard resource, where all data should be
saved if no other resource is specified. Use the <guibutton>Use as Standard</guibutton> button
when you want to change the standard resource. You must have
both read and write permissions to the new standard resource to be able select the resource.
</para>

</sect1>

</article>
